The SEC requires all proposed audit and
permitted non-audit services provided to the audit client
and its subsidiaries to be pre-approved by the client’s
Audit Committee. There are additional PCAOB pre-approval
requirements for tax services and non-audit services related
to internal control over financial reporting. In addition to
requirements set by the SEC and the PCAOB, IESBA also
requires concurrence from the Audit Committee of any public
interest entity including our SEC audit clients, prior to
providing non-audit services to upstream entities that
control the audit client and downstream entities that the
audit client controls, regardless of whether the controlled
entity is consolidated.
In order for the Audit Committee to make an informed
decision about a proposed service, the Lead Audit Engagement
Partner needs to provide them with sufficient information
about the services, to enable them to evaluate the potential
effects on our independence. Such information is obtained
from Sentinel requests and the draft engagement contracts
required to be attached to Sentinel requests for SEC audit
clients and their affiliates. That’s why it’s important that
details included within Sentinel requests are complete and
accurate and that we always stay within the bounds of our
pre-approved scope of services.